apps/www/posts/docs/editor/audioplayer.mdx, before:

---
title: AudioPlayer
order: 104
lastUpdatedDate: 2024-9-30
group: Editor
---

`AudioPlayer` is a class that manages audio playback and editing functionalities. It handles loading audio tracks, controlling playback, and managing audio effects.

## Properties

**name**: `string`

The name of the audio player. The default value is `'AudioPlayer'`.

**tracks**: `Map<string, Map<string, Audio>>`

A map that stores audio tracks, organized by track IDs and audio IDs.

**\_duration**: `number`

The total duration of all loaded tracks.

**audioContext**: `AudioContext | null`

The audio context used for audio processing.

## Constructor

```typescript
constructor();
```

Initializes a new instance of the `AudioPlayer`.

## Methods

### createContext ()

Creates and initializes the audio context.

- Return: `AudioContext`

### loadAudioBuffer (src)

Loads an audio buffer from the specified source URL.

| Name | Type     | Description                  |
| ---- | -------- | ---------------------------- |
| src  | `string` | The URL of the audio source. |

- Return: `Promise<AudioBuffer>`

### prepareTrack (song, trackId)

Prepares an audio track for playback.

| Name    | Type           | Description               |
| ------- | -------------- | ------------------------- |
| song    | `SongDataType` | The song data to prepare. |
| trackId | `string`       | The ID of the track.      |

### play (startTime)

Starts playback of the audio tracks.

| Name      | Type     | Description                                         |
| --------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| startTime | `number` | The time to start playback.<br/>Default value is 0. |

### pause ()

Pauses the currently playing tracks.

### stop ()

Stops all currently playing tracks.

### mute (trackId, isMuted)

Mutes or unmutes the specified track.

| Name    | Type                      | Description                  |
| ------- | ------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| trackId | `string`                  | The ID of the track to mute. |
| isMuted | `boolean`<br/>`undefined` | The mute state to set.       |

### isMuted (trackId)

Checks if the specified track is muted.

| Name    | Type     | Description                   |
| ------- | -------- | ----------------------------- |
| trackId | `string` | The ID of the track to check. |

- Return: `boolean`

### getAudioBuffer (trackId)

Retrieves the audio buffer for the specified track.

| Name    | Type     | Description          |
| ------- | -------- | -------------------- |
| trackId | `string` | The ID of the track. |

- Return: `AudioBuffer | undefined`

### getDuration ()

Returns the total duration of all loaded tracks.

- Return: `number`

## Usage Example

```typescript
const audioPlayer = new AudioPlayer();
const songData: SongDataType = {};
await Promise.all([audioPlayer.prepareTrack(songData, 'track1')]);
audioPlayer.play();
```

Commit message:

feat(editor): export audio blob

apps/www/posts/docs/editor/audioplayer.mdx, after:

---
title: AudioPlayer
order: 104
lastUpdatedDate: 2024-9-30
group: Editor
---

`AudioPlayer` is a class that manages audio playback and editing functionalities. It handles loading audio tracks, controlling playback, and managing audio effects.

## Properties

**name**: `string`

The name of the audio player. The default value is `'AudioPlayer'`.

**tracks**: `Map<string, Map<string, Audio>>`

A map that stores audio tracks, organized by track IDs and audio IDs.

**\_duration**: `number`

The total duration of all loaded tracks.

**audioContext**: `AudioContext | null`

The audio context used for audio processing.

## Constructor

```typescript
constructor();
```

Initializes a new instance of the `AudioPlayer`.

## Methods

### createContext ()

Creates and initializes the audio context.

- Return: `AudioContext`

### loadAudioBuffer (src)

Loads an audio buffer from the specified source URL.

| Name | Type     | Description                  |
| ---- | -------- | ---------------------------- |
| src  | `string` | The URL of the audio source. |

- Return: `Promise<AudioBuffer>`

### prepareTrack (song, trackId)

Prepares an audio track for playback.

| Name    | Type           | Description               |
| ------- | -------------- | ------------------------- |
| song    | `SongDataType` | The song data to prepare. |
| trackId | `string`       | The ID of the track.      |

### play (startTime)

Starts playback of the audio tracks.

| Name      | Type     | Description                                         |
| --------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| startTime | `number` | The time to start playback.<br/>Default value is 0. |

### pause ()

Pauses the currently playing tracks.

### stop ()

Stops all currently playing tracks.

### mute (trackId, isMuted)

Mutes or unmutes the specified track.

| Name    | Type                      | Description                  |
| ------- | ------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| trackId | `string`                  | The ID of the track to mute. |
| isMuted | `boolean`<br/>`undefined` | The mute state to set.       |

### isMuted (trackId)

Checks if the specified track is muted.

| Name    | Type     | Description                   |
| ------- | -------- | ----------------------------- |
| trackId | `string` | The ID of the track to check. |

- Return: `boolean`

### getAudioBuffer (trackId)

Retrieves the audio buffer for the specified track.

| Name    | Type     | Description          |
| ------- | -------- | -------------------- |
| trackId | `string` | The ID of the track. |

- Return: `AudioBuffer | undefined`

### getDuration ()

Returns the total duration of all loaded tracks.

- Return: `number`

### async toBlob ()

Converts the currently loaded audio tracks into a single Blob.
This function merges the audio buffers of all tracks and transforms the merged audio buffer into a Blob.

- Return: `Promise<Blob>`

### async downloadBlob (filename)

Downloads the Blob with the specified filename.
This function calls the `toBlob` function to create the Blob and then uses the generated Blob to perform the file download.

| Name     | Type     | Description                       |
| -------- | -------- | --------------------------------- |
| filename | `string` | The name of the file to download. |

## Usage Example

```typescript
const audioPlayer = new AudioPlayer();
const songData: SongDataType = {};
await Promise.all([audioPlayer.prepareTrack(songData, 'track1')]);
audioPlayer.play();
```
